Creating an app for people who think about getting a dog for the first time. the app will simulate a month as a dog owner (without a dog)

The owner will have: 
- a wallet budjet to buy food, get the dog to the veterinar, fix some damage in his house, maybe for dogsiting
- a reminder for going for an hour walk byhimself, to a dogpark
- a reminder for feeding the dog
- a small courses to train a dog and a reminder for an hour to simulate that
- a list of things they will need to do or buy before the dog's arrival
- a fun fact message every day about dogs
- Choosing different breeds of dogs, each with unique needs and expenses.
- Unexpected events (e.g., vet emergencies, training issues) to simulate real-life challenges.
- Tracks the user's performance over time, giving feedback on whether they are ready for dog ownership.
- Community Integration: Add a social aspect where users can share their experiences and tips with others.


authentication sign up/ in                 logout
Database for use                           for api
budjet wallet increse/decrese              save to user data
alarms one for walk one for foof           one for train maybe more
todolist



insert into fun_facts(funfacts)
values
	('Wow, check out those choppers! Puppies have 28 teeth and normal adult dogs have 42.'),
    ('Spiked dog collars were invented in ancient Greece and were originally designed to protect dogs throats from wolf attacks.'),
    ('Dogs judge objects first by their movement, then by their brightness, and lastly by their shape.'),
    ('During the Middle Ages, mixed breeds of peasants’ dogs were required to wear blocks around their necks to keep them from breeding with noble hunting dogs. Purebred dogs were very expensive and hunting became the province of the rich.'),
    ('One female dog and her female children could produce 4,372 puppies in seven years.'),

    ('The most popular breed of dog in the US is the Labrador Retriever.'),
    ('The shortest living dog was a Chihuahua named Milly, who measured only 3.8 inches tall.'),
    ('Dogs have sweat glands on their paws to help regulate their body temperature.'),
    ('Most experts believe humans domesticated dogs before donkeys, horses, sheep, goats, cattle, cats, or chickens.'),
    ('Dogs like to chew bones but cooked bones and bones that can splinter such as cooked chicken bones should not be given to dogs.'),

    ('Service dogs are recognized in the U.S. as \"necessary medical equipment.\"'),
    ('President Franklin Roosevelt created a minor international incident when he claimed he sent a destroyer to the Aleutian Islands just to pick up his Scottish Terrier, Fala, who had been left behind.'),
    ('Greyhounds can reach a speed of up to 45 miles per hour.'),
    ('Bingo is the name of the dog on the box of Cracker Jacks.'),
    ('Hollywood’s first and arguably best canine superstar was Rin Tin Tin, a five-day-old German Shepherd found wounded in battle in WWI France and adopted by an American soldier, Lee Duncan. He would sign his own contracts with his paw print.'),

    ('Petting a dog can lower your blood pressure.'),

    ('Dogs can see in color, though they most likely see colors similar to a color-blind human. They can see better when the light is low.'),
    ('A dog's nose is wet because it helps them to absorb scents more easily.'),
    ('Dogs are mentioned in the Bible more than 35 times.'),
    ('Dogs can be trained to detect cancer and other diseases in humans.'),
    ('Dog’s definitely don’t see like hawks. They have very poor eyesight, but can distinguish movement 10-20 times better than humans.'),

    ('A Russian dog named Laika was the first animal in space, traveling around Earth in 1957.'),
    ('In ancient Greece, kennels of dogs were kept at the sanctuary of Asclepius at Epidaurus. Dogs were frequently sacrificed there because they were plentiful, inexpensive, and easy to control. During the July 25 celebration of the kunophontis (\"the massacre of dogs\"), dog sacrifices were performed to appease the ancestors of Apollo’s son, Linos, who was devoured by dogs..'),
    ('Yummy! Dogs have about 1,700 taste buds. Humans have approximately 9,000 and cats have around 473.'),
    ('Service dogs are trained to know when they are on duty. When their harness is on, they know it's business time. When you take it off, the pups immediately become playful and energetic.'),
    ('At the age of 4 weeks, most dogs have developed the majority of their vocalizations.'),

    ('The oldest dog on record was an Australian cattle dog named Bluey who lived 29 years and 5 months. In human years, that is more than 160 years old.'),
    ('Humans have kept dogs as pets for over 12,000 years.'),
    ('The longer a dog’s nose, the more effective it’s internal cooling system.'),
    ('Most dogs have 18 or more muscles to tilt, rotate, and move their ears.'),
    ('The are 4 constellations named after dogs.),

    "It is much easier for dogs to learn spoken commands if they are given in conjunction with hand signals or gestures.",
    "One of Michael Vick's former fighting dogs, Leo, went on to be a therapy dog who comforted dying children.",
    "A dog’s vision is not fully developed until after the first month.",
    "President Calvin Coolidge owned at least a dozen dogs.",
    "In Egypt, a person bitten by a rabid dog was encouraged to eat the roasted liver of a dog infected with rabies to avoid contracting the disease. The tooth of a dog infected with rabies would also be put in a band tied to the arm of the person bitten. The menstrual blood of a female dog was used for hair removal, while dog genitals were used for preventing the whitening of hair."



const funFact = async() => {
    const res = await fetch('https://dogapi.dog/api/v1/facts?number=5', {
        headers: {
            'accept': 'application/json'
        }
    })
    const data = await res.json()
    console.log(data);
}

funFact()
funFact()
funFact()
funFact()
funFact()
funFact()

"name": "Raquel",
    "dog_breed": "labra",
    "password": "123@456",
    "email": "raquel@gmail.com",
    "dog_name": "rex"

create table users (
	id serial not null primary key,
	register_date date not null,
	name varchar(255) not null,
	email varchar(255) not null unique,
	password varchar(255) not null,
	dog_breed varchar(255),
	dog_name varchar(500) not null,
	wallet_status integer,
	performance integer
)

quizz:
"Are you willing to make lifestyle changes to accommodate a dog, such as waking up earlier for walks or adjusting travel plans?"
"Are you prepared for the long-term commitment of owning a dog (10-15 years or more)?"
"Do you have enough space in your home for a dog?"
"Do you have a yard or a dog park nearby for exercises?"
"Do you have a financial plan for unexpected expenses, such as emergency vet visits?"
"Do you have any concerns about allergies, either for yourself or others in your household?"
"Are you aware of the specific needs and characteristics of the breed you're considering?"
"Are your living and financial situation stable for taking care of a dog?"
"Are you aware of the amout of time you will need to give your dog?"


todo:
"Make your home Dog-Proof"
    "Remove toxic products from places your dog can reach, or lock them"
    "Remove toxic plants in your home and yard"
    "Put all the chargers, electric cords in a box, or in a place he cannot reach"
    "Clean your floor from small objects as lego, puzzle peices"
    "Put a locker on your garbage can and needed cabinets"
    "Moves all the breakable things your own on shelfs or hight spots"

"Find a vet in your neiberhoud or nearby your house"

"Start learning trainings methods"

"Make friends who are dog owner"

"Find a dog park in your neiberhoud"

"Buy all the first essencials"
    "Food"
    "Water and food bowls"
    "A bed"
    "Toys"
    "A collar with an identifier"
    "A leach"
    "Poop bags"

"Learn about your future dog's breed"

"Find a friend or a family member to lay on in case of emergency"


Project Outline: Dog Ownership Simulation App
1. Project Setup
    Initialize the Project:
        Set up a new project using Node.js for the backend and React with TypeScript for the frontend.

    Initialize a repository (e.g., GitHub) for version control.

    Install Dependencies:
        Backend: Express, Mongoose (or another ORM if using a relational database), JWT (for authentication), bcrypt (for password hashing), and other utilities like dotenv for environment variables.
        Frontend: React, Redux, Redux Toolkit, React Router, TypeScript, axios (for API calls), and libraries like Material-UI or Bootstrap for styling.


2. Database Design
    Design the Database Schema:
        Users: Fields for username, email, password (hashed), and wallet budget.
        Tasks: Fields for task name, description, type (e.g., feeding, walking), frequency, and reminders.
        Fun Facts: Fields for storing daily fun facts about dogs.
        Purchases: Fields for item name, cost, and date of purchase.
        Courses: Fields for course name, description, duration, and reminders.

    Set Up the Database:
        Choose a database (e.g., MongoDB, PostgreSQL) and set up the necessary tables/collections.


3. Authentication and User Management
    User Registration:
        Implement a registration form on the frontend.
        Backend: Create routes for user registration, where passwords are hashed before being stored in the database.

    User Login:
        Implement a login form.
        Backend: Create routes for user login, generating JWT tokens for authenticated sessions.

    Protect Routes:
        Use JWT for route protection on both the frontend (React Router) and backend (Express middleware).


4. Budget and Wallet Management
    Wallet Feature:
        Implement a wallet that tracks the user's budget.
        Backend: Create routes to update the wallet balance based on transactions (e.g., buying food, paying for a vet visit).

    Expenses Tracking:
        Implement UI components for tracking expenses and updating the wallet balance.
        Backend: Create routes to log expenses and update the user's wallet accordingly.


5. Task and Reminder System
    Task Management:
        Implement task components for walking, feeding, training, etc.
        Backend: Create CRUD routes to manage tasks (create, read, update, delete).
        Frontend: Use Redux to manage task state, and components to display tasks.

    Reminders:
        Implement a reminder system for daily tasks (e.g., walking, feeding).
        Backend: Create logic for task reminders and integrate with a notification service (e.g., email, push notifications).
        Frontend: Display reminders in the UI, and allow users to mark tasks as completed.


6. Training Courses
    Course Content:
        Create courses with detailed steps for training a dog.
        Backend: Store course content in the database and create routes for fetching it.

    Course Reminders:
        Implement reminders similar to task reminders but focused on training sessions.

    Progress Tracking:
    Track user progress through courses and store it in the database.


7. Dog-Related Preparations
    Pre-Arrival Checklist:
        Create a checklist of items and tasks to complete before the dog's arrival.
        Backend: Store checklist items in the database, and create routes for fetching and updating the checklist.
        Frontend: Display the checklist and allow users to mark items as complete.


8. Fun Fact Feature
    Daily Fun Facts:
        Store fun facts about dogs in the database.
        Backend: Implement logic to fetch and display a new fun fact each day.
        Frontend: Display the daily fun fact on the dashboard.


9. API Integration
    API Setup:
        Implement a RESTful API to interact with the frontend, handling all CRUD operations for tasks, expenses, courses, etc.
        External API Integration (Optional):
        Integrate with external APIs if needed (e.g., for fetching additional dog-related content).


10. Frontend Development
    UI/UX Design:
        Design the user interface using tools like Figma.
        Implement the UI in React with TypeScript, using a component-based architecture.

    Dashboard:
         a dashboard to show the wallet balance, upcoming tasks, reminders, and daily fun facts.

    Task Management UI:
        Implement components for adding, editing, and deleting tasks, and displaying reminders.

    Expense Management UI:
        Implement components to track and display expenses, and update the wallet balance.


11. Testing
    Unit and Integration Tests:
        Write tests for both frontend and backend using Jest, React Testing Library, and other appropriate testing tools.

    End-to-End Testing:
        Implement end-to-end tests using tools like Cypress.


12. Deployment
    Backend Deployment:
        Deploy the backend to a cloud service like Heroku, AWS, or DigitalOcean.

    Frontend Deployment:
        Deploy the frontend to a service like Vercel, Netlify, or any static site hosting service.

    Database Hosting:
        Host the database on a service like MongoDB Atlas or AWS RDS.


13. User Feedback and Iteration
    Collect Feedback:
        Gather feedback from users to improve the app.

    Iterate and Improve:
        Based on feedback, make iterative improvements and add new features.


14. Post-Launch
    Monitor and Maintain:
        Use monitoring tools to track the performance and health of the application.
        Maintain the app by fixing bugs, updating dependencies, and adding new content.
        This outline should help guide the development process for your dog ownership simulation app!




1. Choosing Different Breeds of Dogs
    Step 1: Research Dog Breeds
        Create a database of different dog breeds with associated data like typical size, temperament, daily exercise needs, common health issues, and average costs (food, grooming, vet visits).
    
    Step 2: Breed Selection UI
        In your frontend, build a selection screen where users can choose from a list of dog breeds. Use dropdowns or cards with images and basic information.
    
    Step 3: Breed-Specific Needs and Expenses
        Adjust the wallet budget and reminders based on the breed selected. For instance, a large breed might require more food and have higher vet costs.
    
    Step 4: Database Integration
        Store user-selected breeds in your database and link them to user accounts. Use this information to personalize the experience.


2. Unexpected Events
    Step 1: Create Event Scenarios
        Define a set of possible unexpected events (e.g., emergency vet visits, dog damages furniture, training issues). Assign probabilities and impacts (costs, time, etc.) to each event.

    Step 2: Event Triggers
        Implement logic in your backend to randomly trigger these events. This could be done at random intervals or based on user actions.

    Step 3: User Notifications
        Build a notification system to inform users about the events. Include options for users to react (e.g., pay for the vet visit, repair damages).

    Step 4: Impact Calculation
        Adjust the wallet budget and time reminders based on the user’s reaction to these events. Track how they handle these challenges.


3. Performance Tracking and Feedback
    Step 1: Define Performance Metrics
        Establish key metrics like how well the user manages the budget, how consistently they follow reminders, and how they handle unexpected events.
    
    Step 2: Tracking System
        Use Redux to manage state related to user actions and decisions. Track performance data across the month.
    
    Step 3: Feedback Mechanism
        At the end of the simulation, generate a report for the user that evaluates their readiness for dog ownership. Highlight areas of strength and improvement.

    Step 4: Data Visualization
        Implement charts or graphs to visually represent the user's performance over time. Use libraries like Chart.js or D3.js for this.


4. Community Integration
    Step 1: Social Feature Planning
        Plan out what kind of community features you want. This could include a forum, comment sections on dog breed pages, or a tips section.

    Step 2: Backend Integration
        Set up a database for storing user posts, comments, and interactions. Implement RESTful APIs for CRUD operations on posts and comments.

    Step 3: UI/UX Design
        Design a user-friendly interface for community interaction. Include features like upvoting, sharing tips, and following other users.

    Step 4: Moderation Tools
        Implement tools for moderating content, such as flagging inappropriate posts or comments. You might also want to integrate a simple reputation system.

    Step 5: Real-Time Features
        Consider adding real-time capabilities like live chat or instant notifications for community interactions using WebSockets or services like Firebase.
    

Project Development Workflow:
    Planning & Research:
        Start by outlining all requirements, creating user stories, and conducting necessary research on dog breeds and unexpected events.
    
    Database & API Design:
        Design your database schema to handle all user data, breed information, events, and community features.
        Create APIs for breed selection, event handling, performance tracking, and community interactions.

    Frontend Development:
        Begin by setting up the React project and implementing UI for breed selection, reminders, and event handling.
        Use Redux to manage state across the application, ensuring a smooth user experience.

    Backend Development:
        Develop the Node.js backend to support all necessary APIs. Implement authentication, data storage, and event logic.

    Integration & Testing:
        Integrate the frontend with the backend, ensuring all data flows smoothly.
        Perform thorough testing to catch any bugs or issues, especially with event triggering and performance tracking.

    Community Features:
        Implement community features last, as these are complex and will require careful planning. Test thoroughly for user engagement and content moderation.

    Final Testing & Deployment:
        Conduct final testing, focusing on user experience and performance.
        Deploy the application using a service like Heroku, AWS, or Vercel.

    Post-Launch Monitoring:
        After launching, monitor user feedback and app performance. Plan for updates and improvements based on this feedback.
        This approach should help you build a comprehensive, engaging app that simulates the experience of dog ownership for first-time owners


(id serial not null primary key,
	funfacts text not null
);
insert into fun_facts(funfacts)
values
	('Wow, check out those choppers! Puppies have 28 teeth and normal adult dogs have 42.'),
    ('Spiked dog collars were invented in ancient Greece and were originally designed to protect dogs throats from wolf attacks.'),
    ('Dogs judge objects first by their movement, then by their brightness, and lastly by their shape.'),
    ('During the Middle Ages, mixed breeds of peasants’ dogs were required to wear blocks around their necks to keep them from breeding with noble hunting dogs. Purebred dogs were very expensive and hunting became the province of the rich.'),
    ('One female dog and her female children could produce 4,372 puppies in seven years.'),

    ('The most popular breed of dog in the US is the Labrador Retriever.'),
    ('The shortest living dog was a Chihuahua named Milly, who measured only 3.8 inches tall.'),
    ('Dogs have sweat glands on their paws to help regulate their body temperature.'),
    ('Most experts believe humans domesticated dogs before donkeys, horses, sheep, goats, cattle, cats, or chickens.'),
    ('Dogs like to chew bones but cooked bones and bones that can splinter such as cooked chicken bones should not be given to dogs.'),

    ('Service dogs are recognized in the U.S. as \"necessary medical equipment.\"'),
    ('President Franklin Roosevelt created a minor international incident when he claimed he sent a destroyer to the Aleutian Islands just to pick up his Scottish Terrier, Fala, who had been left behind.'),
    ('Greyhounds can reach a speed of up to 45 miles per hour.'),
    ('Bingo is the name of the dog on the box of Cracker Jacks.'),
    ('Hollywood’s first and arguably best canine superstar was Rin Tin Tin, a five-day-old German Shepherd found wounded in battle in WWI France and adopted by an American soldier, Lee Duncan. He would sign his own contracts with his paw print.'),

    ('Dogs can see in color, though they most likely see colors similar to a color-blind human. They can see better when the light is low.'),
    ('Dogs are mentioned in the Bible more than 35 times.'),
    ('Dogs can be trained to detect cancer and other diseases in humans.'),
    ('Dog’s definitely don’t see like hawks. They have very poor eyesight, but can distinguish movement 10-20 times better than humans.'),

    ('A Russian dog named Laika was the first animal in space, traveling around Earth in 1957.'),
    ('Yummy! Dogs have about 1,700 taste buds. Humans have approximately 9,000 and cats have around 473.'),
    ('At the age of 4 weeks, most dogs have developed the majority of their vocalizations.'),

    ('The oldest dog on record was an Australian cattle dog named Bluey who lived 29 years and 5 months. In human years, that is more than 160 years old.'),
    ('Humans have kept dogs as pets for over 12,000 years.'),
    ('The longer a dog’s nose, the more effective it’s internal cooling system.'),
    ('Most dogs have 18 or more muscles to tilt, rotate, and move their ears.'),
    ('Petting a dog can lower your blood pressure.')
    ('It is much easier for dogs to learn spoken commands if they are given in conjunction with hand signals or gestures.'),
    ('One of Michael Vick's former fighting dogs, Leo, went on to be a therapy dog who comforted dying children.'),
    ('A dog’s vision is not fully developed until after the first month.'),
    ('President Calvin Coolidge owned at least a dozen dogs.'),


